Welcome. Last week
you learnt how to
classify tweets using
logistic regression.
This week, we will
solve the same problem
using a method called
the Naive Bayes.
It's a very good,
quick and dirty baseline for
many texts classification tasks.
The concepts you
learned will be used
later throughout
the specialization.
Naive Bayes is an example of
supervised machine learning and
shares many similarities with
the logistic regression method
you used in the
previous assignments.
It's called naive because
this method makes
the assumption that
the features you're using for
classification are
all independent.
Which in reality is
rarely the case.
As you will see, however,
it still works nicely as
a simple method for
sentiment analysis.
As before, you will
begin with two corpora.
One for the positive tweets
and one for the negative tweets.
You need to extract
the vocabulary or
all the different words
that appear in your corpus,
along with their counts.
You get the word counts for
each occurrence of a word
in the positive corpus,
then do the same for
the negative corpus
just like you did before.
Then you're going to get
a total count of
all the words in
your positive corpus and do the
same again for your
negative corpus.
That is, you're just summing
over the rows of this table.
For positive tweets,
there is a total
of 13 words and for
negative tweets,
a total of 12 words.
This is the first new
step for Naive Bayes
and it's very important
because it allows
you to compute the
conditional probabilities
of each word given the class
as you're about to see.
Now divide the frequency
of each word in
a class by it's corresponding
sum of words in the class.
For the word I, the
conditional probability for
the positive class
would be 3//13.
You store that value
in a new table
with the corresponding
value, 0.24.
Now for the word I in the
negative class, you get 3/12.
You store that in
your new table with
the corresponding value, 0.25.
Now apply the same
procedure for each word in
your vocabulary to complete
the table of conditional
probabilities.
One key property of this
table is that if you sum
over all the probabilities
for each class, you will get 1.
Let's investigate this table
further to see what
these numbers mean.
First, note how many words have
a nearly identical
conditional probability,
like I'm learning and then NLP.
The interesting thing
here is words that are
equally probable don't add
anything to the sentiment.
In contrast to these
neutral words,
look at some of these
other words like
happy, sad, and not.
They have a significant
difference between probabilities.
These are your
power words tending
to express one
sentiment or the other.
These words carry
a lot of weight
in determining your
tweet sentiments.
Now let's take a
look at because.
As you can see, it only appears
in the positive corpus.
It's conditional probability
for the negative class is 0.
When this happens, you have
no way of comparing
between the two corpora,
which will become a problem
for your calculations.
To avoid this, you will smooth
your probability function.
Say you get a new
tweet from one of
your friends and the tweet says,
"I'm happy today, I'm learning."
You want to use the table of
probabilities to
predict the sentiments
of the whole tweet.
This expression is called
the Naive Bayes
inference condition rule
for binary classification.
This expression says that
you're going to take
the product across
all of the words in
your tweets of the
probability for each word in
the positive class divide it
by the probability in
the negative class.
Let's calculate this
product for this tweet.
For each word, select it's
probabilities from the table.
For I, you get
a positive probability of
0.2 and a negative
probability of 0.2.
The ratio that goes into the
product is just 0.2/0.2.
For am, you also get 0.2/0.2.
For happy, you get 0.14/0.10.
For today, you don't find
any word in the table,
meaning this word is
not in your vocabulary.
So you won't include
any term in the score.
For the second
occurrence of I again,
you'll have 0.2/0.2.
For the second
occurrence of I'm,
you'll have 0.2/0.2 and
learning gets 0.10/0.10.
Now note that's all the
neutral words in the tweet,
like I and I'm,
just cancel out in
the expression.
What you end up is
with 0.14/ 0.10,
which is equal to 1.4.
This value is higher than one,
which means that overall,
the words in the
tweets are more likely
to correspond to a
positive sentiment.
So you conclude that
the tweet is positive.
So far, you've
created a table to
store the conditional
probabilities of words in
your vocabulary and applied
the Naive Bayes
inference condition rule
for binary classification
of a tweet.
Great. Next, you'll look into
some issues with this
implementation and how to fix them.
Now you have seen how
Naive Bayes can be used
to classify the
sentiment of a tweet.
In the next video,
we will simplify the calculations
before we implement it.